Adding UX designer job description (#48)
sourcegraph/careers: job-descriptions/ux-designer.md

- **Openness**. We are an [open company](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/dev/open_source_open_company): our code, our product roadmap, and our company processes are public. This transparency helps us rapidly gather feedback from our customers so we can iterate, learn, and deliver the best product.
- **Progress**. We make continuous progress on our product by [releasing a new version of Sourcegraph every month](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/dev/releases). Check out [our product roadmap](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/dev/roadmap) to see what we are working on next. We also hold [regular retrospectives](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/dev/retrospectives) to learn how we can work better as a team.

If you are passionate about making the world better through software, come join us!

### About the role

We are searching for a creative, self-motivated UX designer who can brainstorm ideas and bring them to life. We highly value Product Design within our organization, as it impacts all aspects of Sourcegraph’s product. You'll have creative autonomy and a strong influence over the product’s development.

You will:

> - Own the comprehensive user experience of the product.

Author: I see what you mean and agree. What I was going for here is that they have ownership over making sure there is a cohesive experience when using the product. They would help the team to move the product towards that comprehensive vision. I'll reword!

- Contribute to overall strategy and decision-making about Sourcegraph’s features.
- Work closely and effectively communicate with our product manager and engineers to define, design, and improve Sourcegraph, ensuring a high-quality implementation.
- Support multiple projects simultaneously while meeting tight deadlines.
- Create designs that adhere to and extend the existing style guide.

> ### Ideal candidates have

Reviewer: Many of these seem like minimum qualifications (see SWE job description for how I separated qualifications from "nice to have") as opposed to ideal attributes.

Author: I'm refactoring to match your format - I like it!

- An understanding of and passion for what makes a great user experience.
- A portfolio showcasing their skillset and years of experience designing digital products.
- Experience (limited, or as a hobby, is fine) as a programmer to understand the product and user need, and to jump into our codebase and fix design (e.g. CSS) issues.
- A knack for giving and receiving feedback, and explaining the reasoning behind their designs.

> - Experience using Figma, Sketch, or any other vector-based design tools to deliver product ideas from conception to mockups and finished renderings.

Reviewer: Is this a qualification? It is hard to imagine a designer being successful without experience like this.

### Compensation and benefits

We provide competitive pay and equity because we want you to act like a business owner and share in the success of Sourcegraph. We also provide [many benefits](../README.md#benefits) to keep you happy, healthy, and productive.

### Interview process

1.  You [apply here]().
1.  We set up a 30 minute call to chat with you about Sourcegraph to find out what you are looking for in your next role.
1.  We give you a small design exercise, then set up a call for you to present your solution and discuss how you approached the problem.
1.  We schedule a few more hours of interviews. We're happy to fly you out to our San Francisco office, or conduct the remaining interviews over video chat, whatever works best for you.
1.  We check your references.
1.  We make you a job offer.

We also expect you to be interviewing us too, so ask us any questions you have along the way.

If you aren't ready to start interviewing, but would like to stop by our San Francisco office to meet the team, let us know!

> **[Click here to apply]()**

Reviewer: I created a stub job on Google Hire.
```suggestion
**[Click here to apply](https://hire.withgoogle.com/public/jobs/sourcegraphcom/view/P_AAAAAADAAC5MKPtg8cFnBD?trackingTag=careersRepository)**
```

---

> Sourcegraph is an equal opportunity workplace; we embrace diversity and welcome people from all backgrounds and communities.

Reviewer: This is already included in the about us section

If you are passionate about making the world better through software, come join us!

### About the role

We are looking for a self-motivated UX designer with the leadership skills to be the facilitator of design, and the pragmatism to be the person responsible for producing and executing the design. You will be our only designer and will work collaboratively with product and engineering to create a highly functional and beautiful experience that delights a technical audience.

#### Your responsibilities

You will:

- Contribute to the overall strategy and decision-making about Sourcegraph’s features.
- Drive continual progress towards a cohesive, delightful experience for a technical audience through iterative improvements.
- Have the autonomy to facilitate conversations, solve problems, and execute the designs.
- Pull together insights to propose a variety of solutions, then collaborate with product and engineering to determine the best solutions to problems.
- Use prototyping and usability testing to inform and validate designs.

We will encourage and support you to:

> - Collaborate directly with customers to inform strategy and design decisions.

Author: Good point. Yes, I think we do want them to feel responsibility around interacting with customers to inform the design. Moving it up.

- Publish blog posts and give conference talks about your work at Sourcegraph.

#### Your qualifications

You have:

- Expertise in designing complex web applications as demonstrated in a strong portfolio showcasing high-quality UX, interaction, and visual design.
- Proficiency with Figma, Sketch, or similar tools to design end-to-end experiences (UX, interaction, and visual).
- Experience with usability testing, customer journey mapping, developing personas, wireframing and prototyping, sketching, and other UX design methods.
- The ability to adapt your tools and processes for the velocity of a fast-paced startup where projects have varying requirement levels.
- The ability to proactively give maintenance to the design system when thinking about how new concepts impact the whole product.
- A knack for giving and receiving feedback, and explaining the reasoning behind your designs.
- Deep understanding of developers, and a good understanding of version control systems, preferably Git.

#### Nice to haves

> - You have experience designing developer tools.

Reviewer: Do you want to have a "You have:" prefix like the above section so you can remove it from this line item?

```suggestion
You have:

- Experience designing developer tools.
```

- Experience working in cross-functional teams on multiple projects in tandem.
- Experience building or contributing to the design of consumer or enterprise applications.

### Location

> We are flexible and don't require you to be in any particular timezone or location. Our engineering team is distributed across the world and about half work from our office in San Francisco.

Reviewer: This specifically mentions our engineering team, which isn't particularly relevant to designers.

```suggestion
We are flexible and don't require you to be in any particular timezone or location. Our team is distributed across the world and less than half work from our office in San Francisco.
```

Our values:

- **Inclusivity**. To build a product that serves the needs of all developers, we need to have a diverse team. Sourcegraph is an equal opportunity workplace; we embrace diversity and welcome people from all backgrounds and communities.
- **Openness**. We are an [open company](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/dev/open_source_open_company): our code, our product roadmap, and our company processes are public. This transparency helps us rapidly gather feedback from our customers so we can iterate, learn, and deliver the best product.
- **Progress**. We make continuous progress on our product by [releasing a new version of Sourcegraph every month](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/dev/releases). Check out [our product roadmap](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/dev/roadmap) to see what we are working on next. We also hold [regular retrospectives](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/dev/retrospectives) to learn how we can work better as a team.

If you are passionate about making the world better through software, come join us!

### About the role

> We are searching for a creative, self-motivated UX designer who can iteratively improve the cohesive user expereience, while bringing clean and thoughtful UI to their designs. It is important that this person deeply understands developers and can craft an experience that delights a technical audience.

Reviewer: > It is important that this person deeply understands developers

Is this a pre-requisite to applying?

Author: Adjusted role description and added this to the qualifications instead.

#### Your responsibilities

You will:

- Contribute to overall strategy and decision-making about Sourcegraph’s features.
- Drive continual progress towards a cohesive, delightful experience for a technical audience through iterative improvements.
- Design elegant flows, wireframes, prototypes, sketches, and high-fidelity visuals.
- Use prototyping and user-testing to inform and validate designs.
- Help measure, learn, and build new and existing experiences.
- Collaborate with product and engineers to bring ideas to life, and support the team to make incremental progress toward design excellence.
- Leverage and evolve the style guide to create a clean, usable design system.

We will encourage and support you to:

- Collaborate directly with customers to collect feature requirements and inform product design.
- Publish blog posts and give conference talks about your work at Sourcegraph.

> #### Your qualifications

Reviewer: This feels like a lot of qualifications. Is it possible to trim this list down into something more concise without losing important fidelity?

In any case, make sure that this list is stack ranked by importance (most important at top).

- A passion for and ability to communicate what makes a great user experience.
- Experience using Figma, Sketch, or any other vector-based design tools to deliver product ideas from conception to mockups and finished renderings.
- A portfolio showcasing your systematic and creative design thinking as well as deep understainding of UI/UX best practices for digital products.

> - Experience (limited, or as a hobby, is fine) as a programmer to understand the product and user need, and to jump into our codebase and fix design (e.g. CSS) issues.

Reviewer: Is this actually a "nice to have"?

Author: Reworded.

> - A knack for giving and receiving feedback, and explaining the reasoning behind their designs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A knack for giving and receiving feedback, and explaining the reasoning behind your designs.
```

This kind of feels duplicative with the first point. Possible to combine?

- Experience with usability testing, customer journey mapping, developing personas, wireframing and prototyping, sketching, and other UX design methods.
- Experience designing digital products that successfully shipped to customers.
- Experience creating and maintaining a style guide or design system.
- Fluency in best practices for web design, as well as knowledge of usability principles and techniques.

#### Nice to haves

- You have experience designing developer tools.
- Experience working in cross-functional teams on multiple projects in tandem.
- Experience building digital products or contributing to the design of consumer or enterprise applications.

### Location

We are flexible and don't require you to be in any particular timezone or location. Our engineering team is distributed across the world and about half work from our office in San Francisco.

### Compensation and benefits

We provide competitive pay and equity because we want you to act like a business owner and share in the success of Sourcegraph. We also provide [many benefits](../README.md#benefits) to keep you happy, healthy, and productive.

### Interview process

> 1.  You [apply here]().

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  You [apply here](https://hire.withgoogle.com/public/jobs/sourcegraphcom/view/P_AAAAAADAAC5MKPtg8cFnBD?trackingTag=careersRepository).
```
